 Southwestern Onion Soup
Submitted by: Paul Baltes (Brigham Young University)
Story behind this Recipe:
This is a wonderfully flavorful twist on a french onion soup. I make it every other week or so. We've passed this recipe along to the tables of each one of our family members, and it has become a staple in their homes as well.
The soup is relatively inexpensive, very filling and incredibly delicious - that is if you like onions and southwestern flavors. Experiment with the types of onions and chilies that suit your tastes.
Ingredients:
6 large (about 3 1/2 lb) onions, thinly sliced (choose your favorites)
7 1/2 cups chicken or vegetable broth
1 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp ground coriander
1/2 tsp oregano
1/3 cup flour
2 tbsps ground dried chilies (chipotle, New Mexico, California, or your favorites)
1 1/4 cups (about 5-6 ozs) shredded pepperjack or regular jack cheese with jalapenos
Fried corn tortilla strips (included in recipe)
1/3 cup fresh cilantro
Units: 	US
Serves: 	4
Cooking Instructions:
In a 5-6 quart pan, combine onions, 1 cup of the broth, cumin, coriander, and oregano.
Cover and cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until most of the liquid evaporates (about 25-30 minutes). Uncover the pan and turn heat to high; stir often, scraping free the browned onions sticking to the bottom of the pan; stir and scrape until all the onions are a rich caramel color (about 15-20 minutes).
Meanwhile mix 6 1/2 cups broth with the 1 cup flour until smooth. Add ground chilesto onions and mix well. Pour broth/flour mixture over the onions. Stir over highheat until boiling. Reduce heat to a gentle simmer and cook 15 to 20 minutes to blend flavors - stirring often (you can make this up to one day ahead - to reheat stir often over medium heat until steaming).
Ladle soup into bowls over cheese. Add tortilla strips and cilantro.

Fried Tortilla strips: Cut corn tortillas into 1/4" wide strips. Fry in about 1/4" oil (canola, corn or vegetable work best) for about 1 minute each until golden and crisp. Drain on paper towels (if making ahead store in an airtight container up to 1 day).

