 Quick and Easy Kimchi
Submitted by: Ring Low
Ingredients:
1 large Chinese/Napa cabbage
3 tbsp salt (4 with my edits added)
2-3 tbsp Korean coarse hot red pepper powder
5 garlic cloves, peeled, crushed, and finely chopped
2 in (5 cm) piece fresh ginger, peeled, crushed, and finely chopped
2 tsp sugar
A couple bunches of spring onion, cut into 2 inch long sections
About 1 1/2 cups daikon cut into 3/4 inch cubes or 1/2 x 2 x 1/8 inch slices (optional)
Units: 	US
Serves: 	N/A
Cooking Instructions:
Trim off the tough outer leaves and stem of the Chinese cabbage.
Cut lengthwise into quarters, then slice into 2 in (5 cm) pieces (if use daikon, mix the cabbage with the daikon).
Place in a large bowl, and sprinkle with the salt. Mix well.

Leave the cabbage for some hours (or, soak the cabbage in salted water for 5-10 hours), shaking the bowl from time to time and mixing well with the hands. Drain off any excess water.
Keep checking the cabbage, bending the thicker parts of the leaves to see if they have yet sufficiently wilted: they should be limp, yet should still be crisp when broken. The usual time, is around 4 hours (if using the soaking method, 5-10 hours).
Meanwhile, take the red pepper powder, place in a saucer, and add sufficient water to make a paste. It is important to do this well before you want to use it, to draw out the colour - if you remember, do this overnight.
If using the soused fermented anchovies, place in a pan and bring to the boil. Simmer for about 15 minutes, then strain the juice through muslin or cheesecloth, pressing out all the juice and flavour from the fish. Save the juice and discard the remains of the fish. If using bottled anchovy essence then this step is not necessary; simply use the essence in place of the strained juice.
When the cabbage is ready, rinse well and drain in a colander Kimchi and Namul for about 30 minutes.

Keep aside a few nice large cabbage leaves to seal the mixture with.
Next, mix together the fish juice or anchovy essence, garlic, ginger, sugar, and red pepper powder paste. Add this mixture to the drained cabbage, add the onions, and mix well (if using your hands, it is advisable to wear rubber gloves!).

Pack tightly into sterile jars (really well washed straight- out-of-the-dishwasher is fine - or put in a pan of boiling water for 5 minutes), seal with the cabbage leaves that had been laid aside, and cover with cellophane 2 layers not completely in contact with the contents - they will leak if the cellophane wrap touches the liquid and lids (not really tight or you will have a pressure build-up problem).

Place the jars in a cool, dark, dry spot or in the refrigerator for 3-7 days.
The amount of time that kimchi will last is a question of taste. Some people like really ripe kimchi; some, on the other hand, prefer fresher, crunchier versions.

